

BLANCA MENDIZABAL PERELLO


------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Full-stack software developer recently graduated from Makers Academy,
  Europe’s leading web development bootcamp. I’m looking for a
  full-stack junior developer position in a company with ambitions to
  create something fantastic in the next few years.

[Blog] groundberry.github.io [Twitter] @blanca_mendi [GitHub]
@groundberry —


Skills

Project management and analytical skills

Strong ability breaking projects into smaller tasks, making it easier to
deliver on time and budget.

Problem solving

My naturally empathetic character is one of my biggest strengths, making
it very easy for me to see when any of my colleagues need personal or
professional support. During my studies at Makers I had the opportunity
to help colleagues that were struggling, making them feeling relieved
and empowered.

Flexibility and active learner

For the last five years I have been experiencing big changes in my life,
and I overcame those by focusing on my strengths and abilities. Last
year I made the biggest change in my life, changing careers and teaching
myself to code before I joined Makers. It sounds crazy but it’s being
amazingly satisfying!

Communication and collaboration

Currently writing a weekly blog explaining my journey into coding. My
colleagues at Makers highlight my patience and ability to explain
concepts as two of my main skills.

Data analysis

Extensive experience on research and data analysis that allowed me to
build internal databases of information to support fundraising proposals
and impact evaluation reports.

Creativity and design

Extensively worked with AutoCAD, Photoshop, InDesign, and Illustrator in
personal and professional projects. I love designing attractive and user
friendly interfaces for every project I work on.


Projects

  -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Name             Description      Technologies      Timeframe
  -------------- ---------------- ---------------- ----------------
  Twitch.tv      Javascript with    Javascript,         3 days
  streaming       Ajax requests    jQuery, HTML,   
                                   CSS, Bootstrap  

  Wikipedia      Javascript with    Javascript,         1 day
  search          Ajax requests    jQuery, HTML,   
                                   CSS, Bootstrap  

  CSS playground   A tool that         React           10 days
                  allows you to                    
                 make changes to                   
                   a simple web                    
                 page and see the                  
                   HTML and CSS                    
                  code that you                    
                 are creating in                   
                    real time.                     

  StoryApp          Javascript      Javascript,         5 days
                   single-page     jQuery, HTML,   
                   application          CSS        
  -----------------------------------------------------------------


Experience

SUSTAINABILITY CONSULTANT at _Little Bee Community_ _(London, UK)_
Oct 2013 – Aug 2016

Led a wide range of projects locally and abroad, ensuring goals were met
on time and on budget. Created internal databases of agricultural
techniques and best practices, and funding opportunities for a wide
range of projects. I supported and managed volunteers and other team
members.

AGRICULTURAL ENGINEER at _Battle McCarthy_ _(London, UK)_ Jan 2013 – Oct
2013

Responsible for urban agriculture R&D. I worked with five other people,
developing agricultural strategies to maximise food production inside
buildings using hydroponic systems.

ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEER at _Aqualogy (AGBAR group)_ _(Madrid, Spain)_ Sep
2011 – Sep 2012

Responsible for conducting compliance checks for the purpose of
enforcing Spanish and European laws regarding water treatment. I also
designed a working methodology for the analysis of biological quality
parameters of Spanish rivers.

VOLUNTARY SPEAKER at _Technical University of Madrid_ _(Madrid, Spain)_
Mar 2007 – Jul 2008

Participated as a guest speaker at the IV World Congress of Agricultural
Engineers, presenting my final year project “Iberian Pig Value Chain
Analysis”.

INTERNSHIP FOOD SECTOR at _Technical University of Madrid_ _(Madrid,
Spain)_ 2006 – 2008

Worked at the Agricultural Economy department analysing the value chain
of various food products, and at the Agri-Food Industry department
carrying out quality control procedures in the bread industry.


Education

ONSITE SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT BOOTCAMP at Makers Academy _(London, UK)_
Aug 2016 – Dec 2016

Highly-selective 16-week full-time program, emphasising:

-   Front-end software development
-   Back-end software development
-   Pair-programming
-   Test-driven development
-   Object-oriented design
-   Agile methodologies

M.SC. ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING AND MANAGEMENT at EOI Business School
_(Madrid, Spain)_ 2010 -– 2011

Master thesis “Development of an Environmental Management System under
the European EMAS Regulation”.

M.SC AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING at Technical University of Madrid
_(Madrid, Spain)_ 2000 – 2008

My final year project, “Iberian Pig Value Chain Analysis”, received an
outstanding qualification.


Other information

English (Professional working proficiency)
Spanish (Native)
I love making my own bread and photography
